---
layout: post
title:  "Ark: Survival Evolved"
category: professional
date:   2019-01-01 00:00:00
preview: professionalprojects/img/Ark.png
---

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="lN2zlMm1i9I" %}

<br/>
Technology : Unreal Engine 4 / C++
<br/>
<br/>
Ark: Survival Evolved is a port of the original Ark game present on other platforms to iOS and Android. This was a technically challenging project since it is a multiplayer game with visually stunning graphics.
We had to make sure it looked as good on mobile and performed well. I worked on following technologies in this project.
<ul>
<li>Programmed different gameplay mechanics such as creature teleportation, character expiration, autojump, player beacon on death, adaptive AI based on player level and spawn times, etc. </li>
<li>Added new in-game building structures, upgraded and added new game abilities to existing creatures. Merged gameplay code for new creatures from PC repository.  </li>
<li>Mobilized game controls for some in-game content. Optimized some game mechanics such as consolidating multiple actor drops to one to reduce actor count.  </li>
<li>Split landscape into submaps for streaming and create landscape material with ES3 rendering constraints. Built technology to optimize foliage, underwater maps and cave streaming. </li>
<li>Coupling backend and frontend for unofficial server integration. </li>
<li>Helped develop server transfer system where player data could be migrated to a different server. </li>
<li>Asset reference cleanup to remove unwanted asset references and reduce content size. Nativized certain animation blueprints. </li>
<li>Miscellaneous engine crash fixes. Fixed multiplayer issues related to replication.</li>
<ul>



